---
title: sap-1000
---
"There is no particular secret to mastering something. Just repeat the same practice every day. Adopt a sober, steady, continuous routine." -- Shunmyō Masuno, The Art of Simple Living

[Super Auto Pets](https://teamwoodgames.com/) is an auto-battler where players pit pets with special abilities against one another. I've played SAP for little over a year now and it's become my main game (if you're interested, please check out the link!). After countless hours of haphazard playing and not really knowing what I'm doing, I've decided to take up the mantle and master this game. Thus I introduce **sap-1000**, my first challenge: to win 1000 arena games of Super Auto Pets. I am to win 100 games in each of the 5 standard packs (Turtle, Puppy, Star, Golden, Unicorn); 200 games in blind random custom packs; and 300 games in random custom packs.

To accomplish this challenge, I'll win 5 arena games per day, projecting a 200-day timeframe. On days where I finish early and have extra time, I'll attempt to win a few more in advance for the next day. At this current point in writing, I've won 40 games in the Turtle pack. Progress!

In undertaking sap-1000, I aim to show myself that I can do difficult things through an accumulation of small daily efforts. Of course, I aim to master the game as well so I can potentially show off some cool gameplay in the future. Content creation as a creative pursuit has always been a dream of mine; I love sharing my ideas with others. Maybe you'll stumble upon my (anonymous) YouTube channel in the future!

In any case, if you're looking for a fun game to play and you're into auto-battlers, definitely check out Super Auto Pets. I guarantee you'll have a blast.
