---
layout: post
title: Easy Runs
description: To run faster for longer, you must first run slow.
---

This is part of a [series of posts]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2025-05-03-pace-based-training %}) on my research into [Hansons Marathon Method](https://books.google.com/books/about/Hansons_Marathon_Method.html?id=glZxrgEACAAJ&hl=en&output=html_text).

A defining characteristic of the HMM is the sheer volume of easy runs baked into both the beginner and advanced programs. The Hansons advocate for about 45 to 55 percent of weekly mileage to come from "easy" runs, paced somewhere between 1 to 2 minutes per mile behind target marathon pace. While many may consider this "unnecessary filler mileage", the Hansons are adamant on the easy run's benefits, particularly in injury prevention and the body's resulting adaptions to stress, which improves fitness.

Biologically, the easy run develops slow-twitch fibers. These fibers burn fat for energy instead of carbs, which means more time before carb depletion begins and more time before you hit the dreaded "wall". On a cellular level, the easy run spurs mitochondrial growth and increases the number of fat-burning enzymes, meaning fat-burning happens more efficiently and thus goes on for a longer time. The number of capillaries and capillary beds increase, alongside hemoglobin and plasma volume, delivering more oxygen to muscles more efficiently. Finally, the heart's left ventricle, where blood is pumped out from, increases in size and thickness, so the same amount of blood can be delivered to your muscles with less pumps. Technically, you are becoming more "metabolically efficient", which is just a fancy way of saying you're converting nutrients (carbs, fats, proteins) to energy more efficiently.

So how do you do an easy run? According to the Hansons, an easy run should take anywhere between 20 minutes to 2.5 hours. There are two types: slow easy runs (2 minutes per mile behind target MP) and fast easy runs (1 minute per mile behind target MP). You should aim to vary your easy runs between the two. The Hansons also stress to not run your easy runs too easy: then, you're just breaking down tendon & bone without aerobic benefits. So if you "feel" like you're running too easy, you probably are, and in that case just up your pace.

I would say my personal experience with easy runs has been quite positive. In my first [67 days of running]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2024-12-26-67-days-of-running %}), and for quite a few runs after that, I was running practically all of them at what I considered to be an easy pace. Anecdotally, this has had tremendous benefits on my general fitness and ability to run long distances, even if I maxed out most of these easy runs at 3 to 4 miles. I lost a lot of weight in the process as my metabolic efficiency improved and felt really good during my first half-marathon. So I definitely see the value in doing these easy runs as prescribed by the HMM, and intend to do quite a lot of them before I start this program.

